---
layout: page
title: Data
permalink: /configure/layers/data
parent: Layers
grand_parent: Configure
---

# Data Layers

Data layers use WebGL shaders to generate tiles on the fly.

#### Layer Name

_type:_ string  
The unique display name and identifier of the layer. It must be unique and contain no special characters.

#### URL

_type:_ string  
A relative to the mission directoty or absolute file path to a Digital Elevation Map tileset generated by `auxillary/1bto4b/rasterstotiles1bto4b.py`

#### Legend

_type:_ string  
An absolute or relative file path pointing to a `legend.csv` that describes the symbology of the layer. Please see the Legend Tool to see how to form a `legend.csv`.

#### Initial Visibility

_type:_ bool  
Whether the layer is on initially.

#### Minimum Zoom

_type:_ integer  
The lowest (smallest number) zoom level of the tile set.  
_Note: This field can be automatically populate with "Populate from XML". "Populate from XML" uses looks for a `tilemapresource.xml` in the tileset directory specified by the URL field._

#### Maximum Native Zoom

_type:_ integer  
The highest (largest number) zoom level of the tile set.  
_Note: This field can be automatically populate with "Populate from XML". "Populate from XML" uses looks for a `tilemapresource.xml` in the tileset directory specified by the URL field._

#### Maximum Zoom

_type:_ integer  
The highest (largest number) zoom level to see in MMGIS. This value is at least as high as Maximum Native Zoom. This allows zooms level higher than that of the tileset. Instead of rendering new tile image, it scales them in instead.

#### Bounding Box

_type:_ string _optional_  
A comma separated string defining the tileset's `minimumLonDeg,minimumLatDeg,maximumLonDeg,maximumLatDeg`. Setting a bounding box improves performance by limiting requests for tiles to only those that fit the bounds.  
_Note: This field can be automatically populate with "Populate from XML". "Populate from XML" uses looks for a `tilemapresource.xml` in the tileset directory specified by the URL field._

#### Time Enabled

_type:_ bool  
True if the layer is time enabled. URLs that contain `{starttime}` or `{endtime}` will be dynamically replaced by their set values when the layer is fetched.

#### Time Type

_type:_ enum [Global, Individual]  
Whether the layer should use global time values or function independently with its own time values.

#### Time Format

_type:_ string _optional_  
The string format to be used in the URL for `{starttime}` and `{endtime}`. Defaults to `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ`.

#### Raw Variables

Data layers need a configured `shader` raw variable to be effective. Supported shader types are as follows:

- "colorize": Allows users to apply and configure dynamic color ramps to the data. Uses the current minimum and maximum viewport data values to adjust color ramps into the most relevant range.
  - units: A string to append to user displayed data values.
  - noDataValues: Values to exclude from minimum and maximum calculations and renderings. Depending on the versions of the custom gdal2tiles, the true data value `0` is represented in the RGBA dem tilesets as 2^31 (2147483648). Ignore 2147483648 as well if you wish to ignore true 0 data values. Max 3 values.
  - sigfigs: How many significant figures to round user displayed values.
  - ramps: An array of arrays of hex color strings. "transparent" is a special keyword for a fully transparent ramp color.
- "image": (Default) Simply shows the underlying raw data in an image form. Mainly for testing, it can also be useful for development for internal pass-tile-canvas-instead-of-url layers.

Example:

```javascript
{
    "shader": {
        "type": "colorize",
        "units": "m",
        "noDataValues": [
            0
        ],
        "sigfigs": 3,
        "ramps": [
            [
                "#FF0000",
                "transparent",
                "#0000FF"
            ]
        ]
    }
}
```
